---
layout: post
title:  "The A3 joins the family."
author: "Joshua Domingo"
date:   2022-05-23 00:00:00 -1000
categories: bike carb conversion
image:
---
## Another car??

I needed a new daily driver and settled on this car. A 2007 Audi A3 2.0T FSI, BPY engine code, S-Line.

## Overview; it was all right
The previous owner wasn't absolutely terrible, but it could have been better. Droning noises from a bad alignment gone too long, some modules and electronics not working, and some regular maintenance issues. It is not a standout car, other than its looks, but it is plagued with the average amount of neglect from most car owners. They don't hate their cars, but don't care enough to do the maintenance that is really needed.

### Maintenance completed so far
- Cabin air filter changed
- Engine air filter changed
- Tires rotated
- Tire pressure adjusted, 38 front, 35 rear, 60 spare
  - Tire treads look decent, manufactured 2019
- Windshield wipers replaced
- Lubricate door hinges, wiper arms, door locks
- Brake fluid changed with VW DOT4, pads and rotors ok
- Axle boots ok, tie rod boots ok, front strut dust boots torn or missing
- Replaced broken hood latch
- Replaced cam follower at the High Pressure fuel pump
- Diagnosed with bad thermostat, change ECT and thermostat

### Issues:

#### Engine/Engine Bay:
- Small EVAP leak with code P0456
- Engine oil temps are lower than expected, $200 diagnosis
  - 170F City driving
  - 150-160F Highway driving
  - Expected 212F
- Coolant temp gauge drops below middle tick during driving, $400
  - CEL for P2181
  - I cleared the code to see temp the gauge working while driving
- Squeaky belt on cold start, maybe belt conditioner considering it's low miles for this kind of car

#### Suspension
- Needs alignment, scheduled for 7/9/2022, $120
- Replace sway bar end links

#### Door Issues
- Driver's door does not unlock with key
- Driver's window switch is malfunctioning, sometimes does not roll up/down when you want it to
  - Confirmed with code *Driver side door control module, no signal/communication*. This could be bad wires at the door hinge loom, or an actually bad module. Take off the door card to inspect further.


<u>Maintenance</u>

| Maintenance                         | Cost Estimate | Time  | Priority |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------- | ----- | -------- |
| Spark plugs, maybe coils            | $$            | Short | High     |
| Fuel filter                         | $             | Short | High     |
| Carbon cleaning                     | $$$         | Long  | High     |
| Brake fluid exchange                | $             | Short | High     |
| Windshield washer fluid not pumping | $             | Short | Mid      |
| Missing tire jack                   | $$            | -     | Low      |
| Sagging Headliner, tears in seats   | $$$           | Long  | Low      |
