---
layout: post
title: "SCCA Race 6 - Wait, I got 3rd?!"
author: "Joshua Domingo"
date:   2023-08-18 00:00:00 -1000
tags: race prep scca solo civicsi  
categories: cars scca civic
image: /scca/race6/civic-si-prep.jpg
---

According to the online results, I got 3rd?! I swear I hit a cone on my last lap and got a +1 (2-second penalty), but I guess it wasn't factored into the final tally. On paper, I've gotten my first podium, but I don't want to celebrate until I get a definitive 1st place. In any case, it's Honda domination in the top 3!

## Racing is better with friends

Between the MR2 guys with Euler, Mike, and Josh (aka Spyderman), Matteo in his NB Miata, Paul, Christian, Bryce, and a handful more, racing amongst friends was a blast. A new face, Dustin, is planning to bring his Aristo to the next race and I can't wait to see that thing rip.

When I first came out to the races, it was intimidating because I didn't know anyone--but I wanted to goddamn race cars.

Everyone had cool and fast cars, and I was extremely nervous to put my foot down on the track with the Civic. But after the first couple of laps and race days, you get into the groove. I made friends with those that have similar cars and eventually with more people who wanted to talk about their cars and their stories. After each race, you start to get more and more familiar with the flow of the paddock and the people in it. This is a sport, after all, and we all have the same goal in mind--go fast and don't get hurt. When you get back to the paddock, there's always the "shoulda, coulda, woulda" but what you do out on the track is an honest display of who you are and what you can do. People like to see good performance and it's always exciting to see what someone else can bring or do on the track.

It's nerve-wracking to race because everyone has their eyes on you. Your mistakes are presented front-and-center as the only driver on the track. You can't hide your shit-driving skills, you have to show up and be there. But amidst all the competition, people want to see you improve and they want to see you get better and push harder because we're all chasing the same silly goal. Racing is something we can do, a problem we want to solve, and at the end of the day, we've got some sick cars to drive back on the way home.

## Is the cabby racing???

We're rolling in with the cab on SCCA Hawaii race #7!

I distinctly remember saying "I'm just going to restore it to running condition and keep it that way." Well, 1 year later, and here we are preparing it for SCCA, haha! How am I going to prepare the cab for racing? But with enough persuasion and YOLO thoughts, I figure I might as well race this shitbox while I have it around. Nothing's forever and nothing's guaranteed. With that, we have to update some components to be at least decently competitive.

1. Improve front suspension
2. Add an oil catch can
3. Inspect tires

### 1. Improving the front suspension

I need a tighter front end so that I don't go wishy-washy into a turn. Currently, the front left can rub on particular bumps and turns so I want to avoid that. This will become more important on off-camber/on-camber turns where the car might dip down just enough. This means I will be doing the following:

- Install the upper strut brace
- Install (attempting to...) the front sway bar, the headers will need some persuasion to give some clearance
- Increase height on front coilovers

### 2. Install an oil catch can

My car will be a part of the Prepared and Modified categories, and the 2023 SCCA Rules, it calls for the installation of an oil catch can. In our case, as a low-powered, naturally aspirated car, oil blowby won't be a big issue but we have to conform to the rules. I ordered the cheapest one that will work for me, lol. Installing a catch can is the rule because it would prevent any accidental spills from an engine puking oil out of its atmospheric vent, this was probably made for forced induction engines where blowby and crankcase pressure is higher, therefore increasing the chance of oil drips on the track.

### 3. Inspect tires

Yeah... the tire sidewalls aren't the greatest. I'm just going to hope and see if they let me race LOL.

<hr>

## Maui Wildfire Crisis

The Maui wildfires were devastating news. And it still is. None of this has stopped and the issues will remain for years to come.

There's so much more I want to do about the situation. I wish I had more money to give. I wish I could be there to be a part of the manpower in helping the community. This whole scenario is something that personally affects me because I spent so much time as a volunteer and know the limitations and benefits that come in dire situations like this.

But I can do what I can.

This is not a place for complacency but don't forget about yourself too. I may not be able to afford to donate more, but I can speak about it. I can write about it. I can share my thoughts with close friends and family. I can still contribute to the greater situation at hand. Not everyone has the privilege to volunteer their time and money towards the cause and that's the reality that many of us on O'ahu face. Don't make the situation worse, read and stay informed, and give and promote where you can. One of my racing friends, Leila, and her family were directly affected because her family and friends are from Maui and it hurts to see what she and her family are going through.

I'm glad that the world is supporting our efforts in Maui and we are getting a prime spotlight because we are Hawaii. But without too much "whataboutism", this circumstance would not be the same for Guam, American Samoa, Tahiti, and any other island community within the Polynesia, Melanesia, and Micronesia communities. Maui is relevant because it's a worldwide vacation destination. But Guam never got the same reaction when they were directly hit by a hurricane (Typhoon Mawar) back in May 2023. The circumstances are not the same. The notoriety was not the same. But my best friend that I cannot lose was there and it shocked me that very few people knew what was happening.

There are tragedies around the world and we will never know the extent of all of them. But we do what we can.

I'll continue to talk about it and think of other ways that I can contribute. I'll continue to read the news and stay informed about world events. The world won't stop because of a tragedy but we can't forget that there might be more to come. Hurricane season is still in effect and people are in disarray and panic. 

If you want to read and learn more from the news, here's a list to get started:

- [Forbes - 5 Maui Wildfire Relief Efforts You Can Help Support]https://www.forbes.com/sites/meimeifox/2023/08/15/5-maui-wildfire-relief-efforts-you-can-help-support/?sh=6b71f4e11bf6)
- [Time Magazine - Why the Maui Wildfire Was So Deadly](https://time.com/6305113/maui-wildfire-cause-hawaii/)
- [The Washington Post - Maui wildfire death toll hits 99 as search for Hawaii victims continues](https://www.washingtonpost.com/weather/2023/08/15/maui-wildfires-lahaina-death-toll-updates/)

Racing is still on my agenda and SCCA Hawaii allowed us to donate items in response to the crisis. The road to recovery takes more than just the money, clothes, and work to see it through, it needs commitment and I hope that everyone that puts their money where their mouth is continues to put their money where their mouth is.