---
layout: post
title: "SCCA Race 6 - Wait, I got 3rd?!"
author: "Joshua Domingo"
date:   2023-08-14 00:00:00 -1000
tags: race prep scca solo civicsi  
categories: cars scca civic
image: /scca/race6/civic-si-prep.jpg
---

According to the online results, I got 3rd?! I swear I hit a cone on my last lap and got a +1 (2 second penalty), but I guess it wasn't factored into the final tally. On paper, I've gotten my first podium, but I don't want to celebrate until I get a definitive 1st place. But in any case, it's Honda domination in the top 3 LOL.

## Racing is better with friends

I'm grateful that I made friends throughout this racing forray. Between the MR2 guys with Euler, Mike, and Josh (aka Spyderman), Matteo in his NB Miata, Paul, Christian, Bryce, and a handful more, racing amongst friends was absolutely a blast. A new face, Dustin, is planning to bring his Aristo to the next race and I can't wait to see that thing rip.

First coming out to the races, it was very hard to talk to the other drivers because everything seems 

## Is the cabby racing???

Let's make the dream happen!

I distinctly remember saying "I'm just going to restore it back to running condition and keep it that way." Well, 1 year later and here we are preparing it for SCCA, haha! How am I going to prepare the cab for racing?

- Refine the suspension under quick turns
- Adjust the jets richer
- Add an oil catch can

The suspension will be straightforward, increase the ride height by upping my coilovers. I might also install the upper strut brace and lower sway bar as needed, but the headers will need some persuasion to install that sway bar.

Coincidentally, my jets will need to go back +1 step richer, which I was already at prior to this breakdown fiasco lol. The fuel pressure regulator that is installed should, hopefully, mitigate my fueling issues with bog on acceleration. I was running between 5-6 PSI before, but the new FPR brought it back down to 3 PSI. I also noticed on road tests that my WOT (wide open throttle) was very lean, reaching 16.0 AFR or ~1.09 lambda. The goal is closer to 13.0, and with my current main jets that would be impossible. I would need to step up 1 or 2 more steps in the main jets (from 165 -> 170 or 175). Each step, if we're keeping all factors the same, should yield about 1 AFR point. Theoretically, a 175 would work, but I need to test that.

Lastly, the oil catch can is not my idea really, I need to abide by SCCA rules. My car is heavily modified, according to the rules, so I need to affix a catch can because my PCV (postivie crankcase ventilation) system is vented to the atmosphere by a filter. Installing a catch can is the rule because it would prevent any accidental spills from an enginer puking oil out of its atmospheric vent. In my low horsepower, NA engine, there's very little chance this is the case. But rules are rules.