---
layout: post
title: "SCCA Race 7 - We love the cabby"
author: "Joshua Domingo"
date:   2023-08-16 00:00:00 -1000
tags: race prep scca solo cabby golfmk1 goflcabriolet vw 
categories: cars scca civic
image: /scca/race7/cabby-race1.jpg
---

## Thinking about race weekend

I can't help moving legs. It's that irresistible feeling of moving your leg up and down while sitting at your desk. If I put my leg up on anything, the movement trickles into my foot and now I can't stop moving my feet. Work is ending in a few hours and I'm eager to start the weekend getting back into my shitty little racecar.

The cabby is the culmination of all the trial and error for the past two years. Buying and testing multiple parts and pieces for my suspension and fuel system. Bike carburetors on a car that was, at best, at the peak of its public homebrew development in the early 2000s weren't exactly the recipe for an easy project car.

Every question and modification had to be vetted through tens, if not hundreds, of vague forum posts that will often terminate with "Did you even use the search function, moron?" But 

Here we are, with my best attempt at what we can call a homebuilt racecar. A Volkswagen Golf Cabriolet MK1. At 2200 lbs, 90hp from factory, carbureted ITBS, a header-back exhaust system, and a rusty, crusty bottom, it's as good as it's going to get. I have no aspirations to win anything with this car because this car was never meant to be. 

I was never supposed to return so early in 2020 back to Hawai'i during my Peace Corps service. I never grew up nor cared that much about cars in my childhood years. All I cared about back then was playing with computers in the safety of my home. But the best surprises in my life have never been planned, things happen and I simply oblige. I found this car in August 2020 on a whim while scrolling through Craigslist to see what was for sale. This was up for sale at $2,500 as an unwanted project car. One test drive and a blown radiator hose later, I purchased my first project car for $800. Being recently unemployed from my Peace Corps service and a dedicated DIY person, I started to learn about how to work on cars, drawing for any and every life experience I had, there wasn't much related to the automotive world. Through every trial and error with changing brakes, refreshing the suspension, and learning about fuel systems, each little project made me want to quite. But I refused to give up. This was my project and I intended to complete it.

## Daily experience

It's deafening in here with the convertible top-up. While the exhaust isn't the loudest part, the pinging sound of shitty, 80s Volkswagen plastic vibrating to no end is what really kills me in here. I'm at a standstill at the stoplight of Haloa Dr and Salt Lake boulevard. A distinct, but faint, click tells me that I've locked into first gear. The light turns green and the entire car rattles with fear and excitement commensurate with my RPMs. Depress the gas pedal. The RPMs slowly growl as I inch my way through my right turn. The lane is clear. We dump the clutch, squeal the tires, and the car comes to life with a throaty breath that can only be met with a primal sense of joy. Car sounds. Happy boy.

## Race day

